Fire Emblem

	The completion of our computing project allows for a fully functional Fire Emblem game in which two players can compete with six man armies consisting of two knights, two mages, and two archers. Given the various statistics of each fighting unit combined with each players’ turn limitations, this has become a highly strategic and entertaining computer game that our group has thoroughly enjoyed.

***NOTE: If using or cloning the repository, it is important to change to the directory patrick_428, which contains the most recent version of the game. In the main directory, or any other directory in the repository, the game will not work properly or fully. ***

The game can be compiled by simply running the “make” command and played by running the “./game” executable. This game displays graphics using SDL2, so the system must be set up for the executable to use the SDL2 library. On the student machines, this could be achieved with the following commands:
setenv PATH /afs/nd.edu/user14/csesoft/new/bin:$PATH
setenv LD_LIBRARY_PATH /afs/nd.edu/user14/csesoft/new/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

	The game shows a map with obvious terrain units and two groups of six character units at the top and bottom of the map and a text box on the lower left-hand corner that directs the game. The top team refers to Player 1, who always moves first, and the bottom to Player 2. Each player has five turns before switching to the next player to make his/her turns. A turn refers to any valid keyboard event that a player can make. In order to make a turn, a player selects a character by mouse click and then can navigate the character by using the arrow keys—the arrow keys have normal direction operation. Each player has the ability to move multiple characters in order to disperse his or her five turns by selecting on another character by mouse click and use whatever remaining turns to operate the newly selected character. The other turn event is attacking: this is done by selecting on a character and pressing the spacebar. Next, the player can click on another character to attack. When this is done, a text box will display information about the attack and the enemy’s health if it was successful. Otherwise, if not in range, it will say that is an invalid move and allow for the player to do something else. These turns happen until one player runs out of characters and the other players wins the game and the game is quit.
        The characters are separated into different subclasses with variable stats in attack, defense, health, and range. A Knight has 100 attack, 125 defense, 100 health, and a range of 2. This means a knight can attack within two tiles of its current location—the distance of swinging a sword in a circle. A mage has 100 attack, 80 defense, 100 health, and a range of 5. An archer has 65 attack, 80 defense, 100 health, and a range of 8. Attacks work on a simple algorithm depending on the attacker’s attack and the attacked character’s defense and removes that integer amount from the health. When a character’s health is less than or equal to zero, they are removed from the screen and deemed unusable.
                There are a few particularities that exist in the program which add unique qualities to our Fire Emblem video game. First, when moving a character and holding down an arrow key, the program doesn’t have time to decipher the amount of clicks on the arrow key so it’s possible to overstep the number of turns per player. It’s possible to make seven or so moves in the five allotted by holding down the key. One must re-select players by clicking on them to let them move or attack after making an invalid attack. This is real life, so friendly fire exists. When attempting to occupy the same space as another character, the character is bounced back to the tile in the opposite direction of the space attempted to move in as if the character “pushed” them out of its square. This happens because the location is checked before the move is actually made, and the check is made pre-maturely and forces the character in to the opposite direction. These few nuances in the game make the game a more unique experience and add to the entertainment value of Fire Emblem.

